and they journeyed from Elim and all the
congregation of the children of Israel
came to the wilderness of sin which is
between Elim and Sinai on the fifteenth
day of the second month after they
departed from the land of Egypt then the
whole congregation of the children of
Israel complained against Moses and
Aaron in the wilderness and the children
of Israel said to them oh that we are
died by the hand of the Lord in the land
of Egypt when we sat by the pots of meat
and when we ate bread to the fall for
you have brought us out into this
wilderness to kill this whole assembly
with hunger then the Lord said to Moses
behold I will rain bread from heaven for
you and the people shall go out and
gather a certain quota every day that I
may test them whether they will walk in
my law or not and it shall be on the
sixth day that they shall prepare what
they bring in and it shall be twice as
much as they gather daily then Moses and
Aaron said to all the children of Israel
and evening you shall know that the Lord
has brought you out of the land of Egypt
and in the morning you shall see the
glory of the Lord for he hears your
complaints against the Lord but what are
we that you complain against us this
shall be seen when the Lord gives you
meat to eat in the evening and in the
morning bread to the full for the Lord
hears your complaints which you make
against him and what are we your
complaints are not against us but
against the Lord when Moses spoke to
Aaron say to all the congregation of the
children of Israel come near before the
Lord for he has heard your complaints
now it came to pass as Aaron spoke to
the whole congregation of the children
of Israel but they looked toward the
wilderness and behold the glory of the
Lord appeared in the cloud
and the Lord spoke to Moses I have heard
the complaints of the children of Israel
speak to them saying at twilight you
shall eat meat and in the morning you
shall be filled with bread and you shall
know that I am the Lord your God
sir it was that quails came up at
evening and covered the camp and in the
morning the dule all around the camp and
when the layer of Joule lifted there on
the surface of the wilderness was a
small round substance as fine as frost
on the ground so when the children of
Israel saw it they said to one another
what is it for they did not know what it
was and Moses said to them this is the
bread which the Lord has given you to
eat this is the thing which the Lord has
command let every man gather it
according to each one's need one Omer
for each person according to the number
of persons let every man take for those
who are in his tent then the children of
Israel did so and gathered some more
some less so when they measured it by
OMERS he who gathered much had nothing
left over and he who gathered little had
no lack every man had gathered according
to each one's need and Moses said let no
one leave any of it till morning
notwithstanding they did not heed Moses
but some of them left part of it until
morning and it bred worms and stank
and Moses was angry with them so they
gathered it every morning every man
according to his need and when the Sun
became hot it melted
and so it was on the sixth day that they
gathered twice as much bread Tuomas for
each one and all the rulers of the
congregation came and told Moses and he
said to them this is what the Lord has
said tomorrow is a Sabbath rest a holy
Sabbath to the Lord
fake what you will bake today and boil
what you will boil and lay up for
yourselves all that remains to be kept
until morning so they laid it up till
morning
as Moses commanded and it did not stink
nor were there any worms in it then
Moses said eat that today for today is a
Sabbath to the Lord today you will not
find it in the field six days you shall
gather it but on the seventh day the
Sabbath there will be none now it
happened that some of the people went
out on the seventh day to gather but
they found none and the Lord said to
Moses how long do you refuse to keep my
Commandments and my laws see for the
Lord has given you the Sabbath therefore
he gives you on the sixth day bread for
two days let every man remain in his
place
no man go out of his place on the
seventh day so the people rested on the
seventh day and the house of Israel
called its name Manor and it was like
white coriander seed and the taste of it
was like wafers made with honey and
Moses said this is the theme which the
Lord has commanded filling Omar with it
to be kept for your generations that
they may see the bread with which I fed
you in the wilderness when I brought you
out of the land of Egypt Moses said to
Aaron take a pot and put an omer of
manna in it and lay it up before the
Lord to be kept for your generations as
the LORD commanded Moses so Aaron laid
it up before the testimony to be camped
and the children of Israel ate manna 40
years until they came to an inhabited
land the eighth manner until they came
to the border of the land of King now an
Omaha is one tenth of an ephah
[Music]